---
id: 819
title: 'Leonie Mhari: An unravelling, a grounding, an assemblage'
date: 2019-06-09T07:00:09+00:00
author: amberflora
layout: post
guid: http://192.168.1.79/?p=819
permalink: /issues/issue-7/leonie-mhari-an-unravelling/
categories:
  - Issue 7
---
# <span style="font-family: georgia, palatino, serif; font-size: 12pt;">An unravelling, a grounding, an assemblage</span>

<span style="font-family: georgia, palatino, serif; font-size: 12pt;">This is an unravelling. <b>I am complicit.</b> Revel. <b>Is this my unravelling? </b>Revel after complicit revel. <b>This is to be a</b> grounding <b>grounding. Falling.</b> In suspension. <b>In turn.</b> U-turn. <b>Torque. </b>Torsion. <b>Twist. </b>Contortion. <b>Headlong. </b>Head first. <b>Head over, </b>heart over heels into <b>ground, </b>grind, same old <b>meteorite, </b>same old star. <b>Filter photons. </b>Brand new light. <b>White dwarf. </b>Red giant. <b>White giant. </b>Bending eyes, turning necks to<b>wards black skies. </b>Straight lines of past acts. <b>Surely there is </b>energy there. <i>[laughter]</i> <b>Red thread </b>reality <b>bind me up with energy, </b>never let me go, <b>take me home to clouds of cosmic dust. </b>Sulphuric lungs and a heart of lead. <b>Lead. </b>Dig deep. <b>Quarried supernova. Bleeding gold asteroid. </b>Bleeding gold asteroids. An unravelling! <b>Ah! I had it. </b>Painted body. <i>[text message received] </i><b>I have it. </b>Had it all! <b>Fill me in, </b>make it your own. <b>Tweaked </b>aura. <b>Gold. </b>-ral -ral -ral -ral. <b>List</b>l<b>e</b>i<b>n</b>sten. <b>You have a heart of gold, </b>and I would paint the town red with you, <b>if you would only ask. </b>But there wasn’t time, the train shot into Cassis. <b>This is the story of the metal. Dash the dark. </b>Dash the dark! Is this intimacy? <b>Walk me… </b>Without you there is only red thread. <b>Cosmic dust. </b>Lead. F<b>fo</b>o<b>ll</b>ll<b>o</b>o<b>w</b>w. Led! <b>Follow! </b>Follow! <b>Lead!</b> Follow! <b>Follow.</b> Follow. Led. Lead. Follow. <b>Lead, led.</b> <b>Follow, lead.</b> Follow, lead? Lead follow led? <b>Lead or follow, led? </b>Led, easily led. <b>Led.</b> Always led, always fol- no… <b>Dust.</b> Panning… panning cosmic dust for silicates. <b>Red thread for silicates. </b>You are cosmic, you are totally cosmic. <b>This is your exterior. </b>Is this your interior? <b>Creating a kindness. </b>Open into being. <b>You are the only one to hold on to the string </b>…which is a good thing <i>[laughter]. </i>This is so full, so vastly full. <b>Full, empty. </b>Such an empty place, such an empty place, such an empty place, such an empty place, such an empty place, <b>such an empty place, </b>such an empty place. Sine tu, sine non qua, qualecumque. <b>Whatever, matter is here. </b>Whatever matters is here. <b>Your past has been so bright you can see it. </b>Here. <b>The past is up? </b>The future. <b>The future is up? </b>Is up! <b>There is no light in the future yet. </b>Not just yet. <b>Do you feel an affinity with your future? </b>Do you feel an affinity with your past? <b>I wish the future didn’t seem quite so sad. </b>I think it just needs a bit more noise. <b>It has noise. </b>You say that. <b>Always. </b><i>[laughter] </i>Ahm red. <b>Insignificant, so very insignificant. </b>They each hold part of a better reality. <b>Together. </b>The reality they make is exactly the reality I want in a reality. <b>Together. </b>Years are remembered in light. <b>How much of this has unravelled? </b>A lot of it’s unravelled. <b>Uhm. We have unravelled. </b>We have unravelled. <i>[laughter] </i><b>It is only red thread. </b>You’re a star! <b>You’re a gem. </b>You’re a diamond. <b>You’re years are remembered in bright. </b>It is only red thread, I suppose. <b>With you pulling it, </b>running your fingers along it, <b>bending, </b>and stretching <b>to move through it, </b>it is real <b>and I can have my red thread landscape, </b>my read thread landscape. THIS IS A WIND UP. <i>[laughter] </i><b>The only way out is in. </b>Cyborgs are not reverent, they do not remember the cosmos. <b>It is a frost moon, the city is made up of pink. </b>And where will she go? <b>And where will we go? </b>Where will we go? <b>To the Earth. </b>Stand close to the Earth. <b>There has been an incident. </b>Watch for the sun rising, bringing new colours to her bright pale body. <b>This is an occurrence. </b>And it is bleak, so bleak. <b>Oh, it’s anything but incidental. </b>You’re anything but incidental. <i>[laughter] </i><b>Is this affinity? </b>This is iron, and lead, and silicates. <b>Certainly there is energy there. Here. </b>Yeah, here. This is earth, and ground, and air, and lungs, and hands, and breathing, <b>and touching,</b> and touching. <b>This is red clay, </b>limestone, <b>silicates, </b>so many silicates, <b>bodies, </b>so many bodies. <b>So many bodies. I think this has been a test. </b>Should we resume? <b>This is a test. </b><i>[laughter] </i>This is not a drill. <b>This… is not a drill. </b>There is no drilling. <b>Here. </b>There is no drilling here. <b>Now. </b>Here, now. <b>Here… now. </b>Here. <b>Emptiness. </b>Emptiness — this is an absence. <b>This is an absence.</b></span>

&nbsp;

<span style="font-family: georgia, palatino, serif; font-size: 12pt;"><em>Leonie is a poet and landscape designer whose interests in the performativity of humans and non-humans often informs her writing and design practices. In 2016 she completed a PhD in Scottish toponymy. Her poetry has been published in the Dangerous Women Project, Gutter, Raum, and Dactyl, and she won the Alastair Buchan Prize in 2015.</em></span>